Indoor And Outdoor Games Children And Young People Essay
Published: 23, March 2015

I have selected this topic because I have observed many child's 
who are very fond of playing video games became aggressive and violent.
 They were used to play video games and then try to apply those techniques 
in real life which they applied in games for example if a kid had played racing game and did drifting in it and get the compliment like
 Excellent, Nice e.t.c so he/she feels he/she was expert in it and he/she can do it in real life too but when he do it in real life it may cause 
serious accident which may cause his/her death. While outdoor games like cricket, football e.t.c. help us to maintain physical and mental health, 
create the spirit of confidence, discipline and tolerance and we learn obedience of rule.
 These games promote peace and harmony among people.

Games help us to maintain physical and mental health, create 
the spirit of confidence, discipline, tolerance and make us enthusiastic and some 
violent video games can increase aggressive behavior.


In ancient times gymnastics were the only method of physical exercise. It was very dull and monotonous. Man wished to get mental pleasure during 
physical exercise so he invented many outdoor and indoor games with the passage of time.


The history of the sports and games likely extends as back as the being of people as purposive sportive and active beings. Sports have been 
useful way to increase mastery of nature and environment for people. The history of sports can teach us about social changes and about the nature 
of sport itself. Sports involves basic human skills being and exercised for their usefulness. It also help us to know how society has changed its beliefs and therefore there are changes in the rules.

In outdoor games we have to obey all the rules so we learn obedience of rules. We learn how to act with our companion players. In outdoor games we learn sportsmanship and also get the spirit of sportsman so, we tolerate the victory of the opponent party When we play outdoor games we breathe in mess of fresh air and oxygen which keeps us away from different kind of fatal diseaseã€€so it turn away one's mind from all kind of tensions, problems and worries.

Games are the important source for the growth and development of mind and body.
 We acknowledge that sitting in front of video games, television for hours and hours is not health beneficial being outdoors help our children sleep more well. When they have played outdoors we should not mind if our children get dirty or filthy due to playing outdoors. We should encourage them to play and prefer outdoor. The benefits of outdoor play can be found in both mentally and physically. We know the benefits, strength endurance and builds coordination. Playing outside is a value able activity in many ways for babies, toddlers and preschoolers. It promotes their development. Babies, toddlers and preschoolers are sensory nerve learners. Besides all health benefits it stretches out children knowledge and thinking. As adults we know that we learn through doing so we should acknowledge that children learn from motion. Playing outdoors cuts down stress in children. Children express and work out emotional aspects of every day experiences through unstructured play. Children allowed to play freely with peers learn skills for seeing things through another person's perspective, cooperating, sharing, and solving problems.

Outdoor games help us to control on different fatal diseases such as respiratory, heart diseases and stroke, high blood pressure, non insulin dependent, diabetes, obesity, back pain osteoporosis and can improve your mood, help you to better manage stress, which also keeps you away from different psychological issues. It keeps a person away from smoking and other addictions which are bad for health. It deviates one's mind from tensions, problems and worries.

Outdoor games teach us different type of skills which help us throughout our life and tell us how to handle different type of situation. It gives us confidence which man always lacks and man always need confidence in every situation. It enhances our decision making. It makes us sharp to manipulate the decision. We learn obedience of rules and laws, so it teaches us the discipline. Tolerance is another factor which it gives us. When we are defeated by the opposite team it teaches us the tolerance against the winning team. It also teaches us the sportsmanship passion and motivation. When we are defeated it gives us passion and target to win next time.
People are so busy in their lives that do not know each other living in the same locality even they do not know their neighbors for years and years. So when people play together in teams so it gives us a better chance to know and to interact with each other. In a team every player has a different socio-culture background when players meet each other they share their moral values, beliefs and norms. Outdoor games bring unity among people and provide a platform to exchange their culture, tradition, customs, views, thoughts and ideas.

Science has made a remarkable progress in the field of technology just to provide comfort and to serve humanity in a better way. During the last few decades our society is facing a serious problem that our youth has involved too much in Gaming at their homes for hours and hours but it is very disastrous for their health. As we know that Video games have been in existence for last many decades and growing concerns about their negative influence are very high especially according to survey held in New York City that those Teenagers who play violent video games over a number of years become more aggressive and stubborn. According to a recent research that violent video games can change the brain in just one week and make players more hostile and harsh. The most alarming situation is that the crime rate is increasing phenomenally due to violent video games we have most of the times what we have in those games for instance bloodshed, massive killings, bombings, sex abuse and sexual contents.

The biggest example of the game that stimulate greater violence was the call of duty and Anders Breivik, the Norwegian who killed 77 people, claimed earlier this year that he had played video game Call of Duty to train himself I have some recent examples which are enough to prove me right.

A 13-year old boy jumped from the building's 24thÂ floor and committed suicide after playing War craft III for 36 hours straight.

A teenager went on a rampage and killed three men, two of them police officers, after months of playing Grand Theft Auto

A 17-year-old male killed his mother and wounded his after they took Halo 3 away from him.

A 15-year old ran away from home after his parents took his Xbox console away. His dead body was found almost a month after.1

Eric Harris and one of his freinds, Dylan Klebold killed 13 students at Columbine High School and then killed themselves on 20th of April 1999. According to the statements of their mothers, both were big buffs of the Doom, the first-person shooter video game. Is it too large of a leap in logic to deduce that this violent video game resulted the pair to perform this terrible act of barbarity?2

More than 130 researches have been carried on more than 130,000 participants around the world (Anderson et al., 2010). These surveys prove that violent video games increase aggressive thinkings, furious feelings, physiological stimulation, and belligerent behavior. Violent games also decrease aiding behavior and notions of sympathy for others.3

Child's who are very fond of playing video games became aggressive and violent. They were used to play video games and then try to apply those techniques in real life which they applied in games for example if a kid had played a racing game and did drifting in it and get the compliment like Excellent, Nice e.t.c so he/she feels he/she was expert in it and he/she can do it in real life too but when he do it in real life it may cause serious accident which may cause his/her death.

It is said, "Healthy body creates a healthy mind" however, it is just not possible for everyone to go on doing hard work at studies without a break. All time hard work and study can result into great monotony. Every student after a hard work needs a change, some recreational activity etc and sports are the best for this purpose. Outdoor games are equally important as studies are. These games help a student to maintain a good physique and sound health. If a person does not take part in such kind of activities, this will not let him/her to perform well in academics. Games and sports create a sense of leadership, a sense of confidence in a student.
At the end, outdoor games are very important in one's life. These games promote peace and harmony among the people. A student must primarily work hard on his studies but he cannot ignore games and sports. It is wrong to say that playing games and sports is wastage of time. Playing game is rather a creative utilization of time but children should not play violent games as by this he/she might became aggressive.

WORK CITED
Measurements taken from New York times Published on 12 July, 2011



